hey what up this video is going to talk
briefly about one amusing case of an
incorrectly translated tattoo and then
I'm going to speak briefly on my
experience with translations of tattoos
and some other languages because I've
studied so many different languages and
I've lived in so many odd parts of the
world if I look strange in this video
it's because this is me filming without
natural light I'm filming this at night
so like one half of my face is going to
look bright pink and the other half is
gonna look bright blue it's gonna look
terrible that's all right this ain't a
beauty contest so I I got an offended
response here on YouTube from a guy whom
I was trying to help out by alerting him
to the fact that his Chinese tattoo did
not say what he thought it said now this
is a bit of a cultural phenomenon
there's a blog called handsy s'matter
Hanzus matter but anyway I'll have to
spill out that link for you guys to find
it probably but there were different
websites that collect examples of people
who pay for a tattoo and they asked for
one thing but got another thing and
whenever there's a language barrier
involved things can go horribly wrong
with tattoos and this is especially
common these days with both Chinese and
Japanese now I have a colleague who
works on Sanskrit and Sanskrit also has
its own kind of hilarious stories and
hilarious websites devoted to this
subject of people who don't know the
language paying money to get a tattoo in
the language because they think it has
some special symbolic significance or
what have you so anyway the situation
just a couple days ago was that this guy
had an image of himself up with this
Chinese tattoo and the thing isn't that
it made no sense at all it looked like
it was trying to make sense that's often
the case with a mistranslation singing I
was he trying to say like a hundred
percent like I'm a hundred percent or
I'm gonna go I'm gonna give it a hundred
or I want a hundred what you know what
was the tattoo trying to get at and
anyway so road to the guy said look but
you know or was it that he was trying to
phonetically get the name of the country
Brazil like what
you know you're just thinking through
these different possibilities or you
know is it an idiom but they only gave
him half of the phrase and not the you
know like a four character idiom so
you're just thinking of these different
possibilities and also I gotta say um I
do not speak Chinese fluently at all I
am a level one student of Chinese but
I'm a student who has an unusually
technical approach to the language so in
terms of the graphical elements that
make up characters water called the
system of radicals I have more of an
education that than most people
including some some fluent speakers who
have known but anyway I there are no
false claims to confidence in this but
was looking at his tattoo and just
looking up in the dictionary and I wrote
to one Chinese friend of mine and said
look you know can you make sense out of
it anyway and then i wrote the guy on
facebook and he wrote back at first for
the comment that basically indicated he
doesn't care what it really says he's
happy with the tattoo and that's that
well yeah you know but i'm trying to
figure it out and I had some more
suggestions like this like we thinking
about the country Brazil was it this
thing was that thing and he then sent me
a link to a video in which he tells the
whole story of how he got this tattoo
his parents went to Hong Kong and they
were told a certain story about this
that this was the meaning of this is the
sound and you know feel bad for the guy
but what his parents were told was a
hundred percent wrong what they were
told but the meaning of the Chinese
characters was wrong and also what they
were told about the sound the phonetic
significance of the characters was false
so I wrote back to tell Nancy look I'm
sorry to tell you but what you've got
written on your skin doesn't make sense
in any language and the sound isn't what
you think it is and I said but the good
news is the actual characters used they
can be transformed to make another
phrase that make sense you know so when
you talk about making a cover-up tattoo
you could add some words after it or
some words before it you could figure
something out and this is the part he
really misunderstood I was trying to
explain to him that one of the
characters he has is pretty much
meaningless
modern Chinese but it is used
phonetically for certain types of
foreign sounds so the example I gave him
and he misunderstood this and this is
maybe why so set I said look you knows
this is a phonetic symbol and it's in
the Chinese word for fascism now he has
misremembered this in his mind gotten
confused he thought I was warning him
that his tattoo actually had the meaning
fascism but no it was an example of one
of the foreign sound so you know this
kind of sound in fascism they choose to
transcribe that into Chinese with this
symbol so they use it in a number of
other words that have nothing in common
in terms of meaning it's just phonetic
it's in the name of the country Pakistan
as Pakistan is written into Chinese so
there there's an STC on Pakistan and for
whatever reason they chose to use the
symbol in transcribing transcribing that
sound um so look I understand the guy
felt offended as heartbroken it's
overstating it say yeah that's our
program but I understand he felt
frustrated with me because I was the
bringer of bad news in telling him that
his tattoo does not mean what he thinks
it means but of course the other hand
he's also playing with a little bit of
cognitive dissonance because he's saying
repeatedly that he doesn't care about
what the tattoo means objectively he
only cares about what it means to him
subjectively so look that's all I can do
for you I looked it up in the dictionary
because I found an interesting I asked
one Chinese friend about it I tried to
figure out what it meant I tried to warn
you but both what it means and what it
sounds like the meaning is not linked to
fascism that's just an example of how
the character is now used in modern
Chinese because it is mostly used as a
phonetic character not for its meaning
so hey it is what it is look Chinese is
in some ways the last and the least of
the languages of studied there were no
false claims about my level of ability
in Chinese on this youtube channel on my
blog in any of my publication you can
look through what I've managed to do
living around Chinese in and around the
Chinese language but you know poly is
the ancient scriptural
language used for terrell out of
buddhism and i had a lot of experiences
and encountering people who sometimes
had tattoos that were incorrect that
we're trying to evoke the cultural
history of tera vaada Buddhism but then
also sometimes you meet people at
tattoos that were completely correct but
you'd wonder man what does this mean to
you I bumped into a French guy on the
banks of the Mekong River and he had an
elaborate traditional Cambodian poly
tattoo a full magical diagram tattoo
that went right up to his neck and
covered his whole upper chest CZ
elaborate little magical squiggles that
are broken pally they're written in this
language I studied and like I can't say
it's incorrect he went to a tattoo
artist who really is part of that
tradition but like this guy I you know I
talked him for a little bit he's not a
Buddhist he doesn't believe in this
stuff he doesn't understand what symbols
means and like you're going to job
interviews with this written on your
neck whoa you know that blows my mind
however in his case when you get a
tattoo in an obscure language whether
that's Cambodian or pally or in this
case a combination of Cambodian and
pally to understand that that's who you
need to both no written Cambodian and
the underlying language pally he's not
going to bump into a lot of people who
know what his tattoo means any better
than he does there are millions and
millions of people by contrast who can
read the chinese language all over the
world so if you've got a tattoo in
chinese that doesn't make sense it means
something you don't think it means it's
a problem and you know if you feel that
you're happy with your tattoo and you
don't want to change it that's one thing
in terms of how Chinese people will
regard you or anyone with a little bit
of an education Chinese which includes
me I'm level one as a Chinese student to
just half a step up from level zero let
me tell you but just with the bits and
piece of the language I know from the
work I've done when I see that tattoo
right away i'm picking what
so you got to think about that side of
it too um not everything in life is
dream and you can imagine how you might
react if you met someone who had
something you had a large prominent
tattoo that was written in English but
the English didn't quite make sense and
the more you looked at it the less sense
it made and you then asked a friend does
that say what I think it says is what it
is